Being friends with someone you had once had feelings for is a very delicate situation to be in. It’s a huge shift for anyone for their interest to shift from romantic to now being completely platonic. But it's not impossible to achieve. You won't be the first person to be friends with a person you once liked and won’t be the last. All you need is some patience, emotional maturity, and the intent to prioritise the friendship over any romantic feelings that’ll help you maintain a respectful and supportive relationship with them.

One of the most important questions you need to ask yourself is if you still like them or have you moved on. It’s crucial to understand where you stand before deciding what’s to be done next. If you still happen to like them, that’s absolutely alright. Keep those feelings on the side and be honest with yourself about how it could affect the friendship. Take as much time to process these emotions before going straight back in and behaving like nothing ever happened. 

If you and your friend are cool about things, it may be good to talk to each other about your past feelings. Things don’t need to get too emotional so do your best to avoid the drama and just stick to how you feel. No matter how you feel (moved on or romantic), let them know about it. Even if the latter means that you have to take a step back, do it for the friendship. At no point must you send them mixed signals and make them think that you still like them when you’ve clearly told them the opposite. 

Think about the reasons why you’re friends with this person and their importance in your life. Appreciate these qualities and focus on the present, and the future instead of being stuck up in the past and thinking about how things could have been. A change in mindset by shifting your perspective from romantic to platonic can help you see the bond that you share in a healthier way. 

It’s important to know and understand that might have different feelings or not be comfortable being friends with you after knowing that you liked them. Whatever their decision is, respect it and allow them time. Do not push for something that they aren’t ready for. 

If being around them is becoming emotionally draining, it's important to set boundaries. Limit one-on-one interactions, especially if they’re hard to handle, and consider spending time in group or public settings where the intensity is lower. If the situation continues to feel painful, taking a step back or a break from the friendship can help. This time apart will give you the space to clear your mind, focus on yourself, and prioritise what truly matters, without carrying the emotional baggage.